---
layout: post
title: "GSOC week 11"
description: ""
category: gsoc
comments: true
tags: [gsoc]
---
I got my adaptive sampling branch merged last week. Now the plots are sampled
adaptively and is more accurate. I also added a lot of tests to the implicit plotting
branch and the coverage now is greater than 90%. 

One of the major things decided in the previous week was to restructure the plot
function. Presently ``plot`` is a single function, which depending on its input, renders
an 2d or an 3d plot. Though it plots the right kind of plot, the ``plot`` function is
quite complex and it was decided to split the plot function into smaller functions
that plots a particular type of plot. I tried an approach where all 2D plots are plotted
by a ``plot2d`` function, the 3D plots by ``plot3D`` and the existing ``plot_implicit`` 
plots to plot regions and implicit equations. Aaron mentioned that the API is still very
complex as I was using tuples and lists to differentiate between a parametric plot
and a 2d line plot and he was right. It is a bit complex and it was decided to have
a functions for each kind of plot. 

I think i can have the new plot functions as an PR by next week and I would like to
try getting a Mayavi backend ready by the end of my GSoC period.

I forgot to mention why I deviated from my what I said I would do in my GSoC
application. I tried getting a svgfig backend ready for almost one and a half week,
and it was quite difficult. svgfig is not being updated and I had a hard time getting
the axis ticks labelling to work most of the time. I wrote to the project maintainer
many times and he helped me with a lot of things, but the library was not polished
enough to use it with Sympy Live. So plotting for SymPy Live should be attempted
with a javascript plotting library rather than a python backend. If we get matplotlib
support on GAE, then it would be awesome.

